Access Controls in Server Access doc section (#13308)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/server-access/rbac.mdx

---
title: Server Access Controls
description: Role-based access control (RBAC) for Teleport Server Access.
---

> # Server Access Role-Based Access Control

Reviewer: I don't think we need this H1. The `title` frontmatter attribute already defines an h1 for the page. If this is a more appropriate title, you can set it with the `h1` frontmatter attribute.

> Role-based access control (or RBAC, for short) allows administrators to set up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Role-based access control (RBAC) allows administrators to set up
```

> granular access policies for servers connected to Teleport.

Reviewer: Can we expand "granular access policies" a bit? Otherwise, this repeats the technical term "role-based access control". For example: "...allows administrators to define rules for which members of an organization can perform operations on servers connected to Teleport."

An example of a policy could be, *"server administrators have access to
everything, QA team and engineers have full access to staging servers, and

> engineers can gain temporary access to the production server in case of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
engineers can gain temporary access to production servers in case of
```

emergency"*.

> For a more general description of Teleport roles and examples see [RBAC](../access-controls/introduction.mdx), as

Reviewer: I think we should flip this sentence around so "this section focuses on configuring RBAC for Server Access" comes first. That statement is the more important part of this paragraph. Also, I think we should say "guide" instead of "section."

this section focuses on configuring RBAC for Server Access.

## Role configuration

> Teleport's "role" resource provides the following instruments for restricting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure RBAC for server access by defining the following fields within a `role` resource:
```
Suggested to make this a bit simpler

server access:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: developer
spec:
  # SSH options used for user sessions
  options:
    # max_session_ttl defines the TTL (time to live) of SSH certificates

>     # issued to the users with this role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # issued to users with this role.
```

    max_session_ttl: 30h0m0s
    # forward_agent controls whether SSH agent forwarding is allowed
    forward_agent: true

    # port_forwarding controls whether TCP port forwarding is allowed
    port_forwarding: true

  allow:
    # Label selectors for server instances this role has access to.
    #
    # These will be matched against the static/dynamic labels set on the

>     # ssh service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # SSH Service.
```

    node_labels:
      environment: ["dev", "stage"]

>     # logins array defines the OS logins a user is allowed to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # logins is an array of OS logins a user is allowed to assume when accessing a Node.
```

    # A few special variables are supported here (see below)
    logins: ["ubuntu", "debian"]

  deny:
    logins: ["root"]
```

<Admonition
  type="note"
  title="Deny Rules"
>

>   Deny rules will match greedily. In the example above, any attempt to use `root`

Reviewer: If we're going to explain the allow/deny rule logic here, I think we need a more complete explanation. Right now, there is little indication of how each field in a role works together when a user attempts to access a Node.

We can use the `node-logins.mdx` partial added in [this PR](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/12583/files) for this, though we would need to wait for that PR to be merged.

  even if specified in another role is denied.
</Admonition>

## Template variables

> Similar to other role fields, server fields support templating variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fields in Teleport role definitions support templating variables.
```
Since a user may not be familiar with other role fields.

> The `{{external.xyz}}` variables are replaced with values from external [SSO](../enterprise/sso.mdx)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Strings with the format `{{external.xyz}}` are replaced with values from external [SSO providers](../enterprise/sso.mdx).
```
Replacing "The..." here since we haven't referred to these variables yet.

> providers. For OIDC, they will be expanded with a value of an "xyz" claim; for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. For OIDC providers, they will be expanded with a value of an "xyz" claim. For
```

> SAML — with an "xyz" assertion value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For SAML providers, they will be expanded with an "xyz" assertion value.
```
I think it's fine to use a bit of repetition here for clarity.

For example, here is what a role may look like if you want to assign allowed

> logins from the user's Okta `serverusers` and matching node environment values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
logins from a user's Okta `serverusers` assertion and matching values
```

> from `environments` assertion:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from a Node's `environments` assertion:
```

```yaml
spec:
  allow:
    logins: ["{{external.serverusers}}"]
    node_labels:
      environment: ["{{external.environments}}"]
```

> The `{{internal.logins}}` variable subsitutes at the root cluster and permits sharing

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand "substitutes at the root cluster." Is there another way to phrase this?

Also, we haven't mentioned Trusted Clusters yet, so I'm not sure we want to begin explaining `internal` template variables by referring to them.

Can we explain how the `internal` template variable works if you're not using Trusted Clusters, then add the Trusted Cluster text?

allowed logins with leaf clusters. They will be replaced
with the respective properties of a remote user connecting from a root cluster.

For example, suppose a user in the root cluster has the following role:

```yaml
spec:
  allow:
    logins: ["ec2-user"]
```

The role on the leaf cluster can be set up to use the user's allowed logins:

```yaml
spec:
  allow:
    logins: ["{{internal.logins}}"]
```

> ## Optional Settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Optional settings
```
We use sentence case for headings.

> ## Optional Settings

Reviewer: I'm not sure why this section is separate from the initial list of options. The "Role configuration" section does not indicate that the options in that section are required. Also, some options are shared between the "Role configuration" section and the "Optional settings" section. Should we combine the options in both of these sections?

> Here are additional Server Access Role options that can apply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are additional Server Access role options you can configure:
```
